Backend Take-Home Assignment Instructions

Context:
At Bevel, backend engineering often involves setting up things end to end, from dealing with infrastructure, to writing data cleaning and ingest pipelines, to writing application code to serve that data. It often requires getting into the nitty gritty of health domains. In this task, we will walk through an end to end example of this work centered around food data.

1. Cloning the Private GitHub Template
You will receive an invitation to a private GitHub repository that serves as a template. This folder will contain the boilerplate code and a docker-compose.yml file for local services.

Create a New Repository from the Template:
- In GitHub, open the Template Repo link.
- Click the “Use this template” or “Use Template” button (if available).
- Choose “Create a new repository” and set it to Private if necessary.

Important: This repo contains a server setup for your convenience and to show how to use the infrastructure. You are free to use a different language / server framework / ORM if you wish - the only requirement is that the end result serves the expected HTTP API.

2. Running the repository

This assignment relies on Elasticsearch (for search functionality) and PostgreSQL (for relational storage). We will use Docker Compose to spin up a local setup.

Elasticsearch Documentation: https://www.elastic.co/guide/index.html
PostgreSQL Documentation: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/

2.1. Setting up Docker
Follow the instructions in README.md to setup docker and run the services.

This will pull and run:
1. Elasticsearch (listening on http://localhost:9200)
2. Kibana (optional UI on http://localhost:5601)
3. PostgreSQL (listening on port 5432 inside container, 54328 on host by default)

2.2 Integrating Express server
The provided repo includes an example app server with test endpoints to demonstrate how to connect to the Postgres and Elasticsearch instances. The current db.ts file is set up with pg, but you are free to use any ORM you are familiar with. README.md includes instructions for running the server and installing dependencies.

3. Project Specification

3.1. Data
Download the USDA Foundation Foods CSV dataset from: https://fdc.nal.usda.gov/download-datasets

This site contains multiple datasets, you only need to ingest the Foundation Foods dataset for this task. The CSV ZIP file contains a few different files. You will need:
- food.csv - contains details of the foods
- food_nutrient.csv - contains a one-to-many mapping of each food to the amount of different nutrients that it contains
- nutrient.csv - contains a list of all nutrient_id values found in food_nutrient and what nutrient they correspond to

Important: food.csv contains foods with different data_type values, for this task you will only need to ingest foods where data_type = foundation_food.

3.2 Data Ingest
Create a script or endpoint that:
- Parses the CSV files
- Ingests the data from the CSV into the postgres database necessary to serve querying via endpoint.
- Index foods into Elasticsearch so they can be searchable by name

3.3 Implement a /search Endpoint

Implement a /search?query= endpoint that returns FoodSearchResponse with the following schema:

enum FoodNutrient {
   CALORIES = "calories", // returned in kilocalories
   PROTEIN = "protein", // returned in grams
   CARBS = "carbs", // returned in grams
   FAT = "fat", // returned in grams
}

interface NutrientAmount {
   type: FoodNutrient;
   amount: number;
}

interface Food {
  name: string;
  nutrients: NutrientAmount[]
}

interface FoodSearchResponse {
  foods: Food[]
}

The /search endpoint should return the best 20 matches for any given search query.

Notes:
- You will likely need to look at the data to figure out how to properly map the USDA nutrients to the nutrients that we expect.
- Returning the “best” results for search terms can have multiple implementations, but be prepared to justify your choices.

3.4 Dynamically Reindex the search index

Once you have the index query working, the next step is to update the server to dynamically update the Elasticsearch index when the underlying database data changes. You can implement this using Postgres' NOTIFY functionality - which allows you to attach a notification handler on change of data. You should add some way to test and demonstrate that updating the index is working properly.

4. Update the README

After completing the implementation, please update the README with an explanation of 1-2 design decisions that you wanted to highlight in your implementation, including the tradeoffs of the decision and other options considered.

5. Evaluation Criteria
- Your code should be well structured and abstracted, with consideration towards readability, maintainbility, and clean abstractions.
- The implementation is relatively open-ended, and there are many ways to set up the system that meet the requirements. You should think through the performance and reliability of the system with similar rigour to a production system and be prepared to discuss your decisions and the thought process behind them.
- You are allowed to use AI for this assessment, and are encouraged to use it to ramp up on unfamiliar technologies. However, you are expected to clearly understand all parts of the code that is submitted and be prepared to walk through it in detail.

6. Submission Instructions

1. Create a ZIP file of all your code: Please create a ZIP file of all your assessment code (including the ingestion script, your /search route, and any mappings/config). Make sure to strip all package and executable files to prevent the zip file from being too large.
2. README / Docs:
   - Update the project’s README.md with brief instructions on how to:
      - Run migrations (if any).
      - Ingest the CSV data.
      - Start the server and test the /search endpoint.
3. Submit the completed assessment in the Asbhy link provided in the email. If you were not provided a link, please send the assessment as a zip file via email.

